So far, we've looked at variables, so we looked far and Val, VAR being something that we can change
to create a variable and we attach far and we can always change that variable like a later time.
Val, on the other hand, we cannot change, so it is immutable.
The great thing about variables is that they allow us to store pieces of data.
But the other side of variable is that it only allows us to hold one item at a time.
Now, although this is OK for most of the things that we've been doing, but as you learn more about
programming, as you learn more about the power of Coughlan and you start pulling together more complex
programs, you will find yourself needing something that can hold more items.
That's when collections come to light.
What is a collection?
Well, collection, first of all, allow us to hold a collection of items.
So let's take a look.
A collection, by definition, usually contains a number of objects or items in a certain order of the
same type.
You can think about of a collection that you may have of, let's say, dolls or a CD.
Right?
And usually what you want to do or what you usually do, you organize your collection into different
kinds of items so you can have a collection of CDs and then can have a collection of dolls.
You can have a collection of car.
So you notice that each time I say a collection, I'm saying that you have a collection of X Collection,
Y collection of Z.
So those are the types that we will have in one collection.
So you have CD, that's one type, you have cars and other type and dolls and other types.
OK.
So that's the idea.
But when we talk about collection now, here is a visual representation of what a collection in memory
would look like.
You know, there are different kinds of collections and we see those who talk about those.
But in a nutshell, in memory, you will have something like these four.
You have 23, 123, 39, eight, six and so forth.
So this is collection in this case of integers numbers.
So in memory, each one of these items, we call them elements life.
So if I say, what is the first element or first item in this collection, we would say 23.
And what is the last one is going to be number four.
These are called elements.
And the great thing about having a collection of some sort is that each seat, if I may call it right.
Each slot, if you will.
It's called an index.
So index is the slot where the element sits in a memory.
So the first index starts at zero, so that will be index zero.
If I say, what do we have in index zero?
We will have 23, index one will have 123 and so forth.
So that is, the visual representation of a collection could be a list released in the list and so forth.
I like I say, there are different kinds of collections, but this is the base of collections where
we have elements inside of slots that are numbered into index that are numbered as indices.
So Index zero.
It's going to be the first slot and one the second slot and so forth.
Let's go ahead and see how can we create a list or a collection, a basic collection so we can start
adding things to it and look through.
But before we go forward also, you will notice something that's very interesting.
The collection will have what you call a length or a size.
What is that length or size?
In this case, it's going to be six or length or size is the number of elements in the collection not
to be confused with the index.
This is just how many slides we have inside of our collection.
Like in this case, we have one two three four five six.
That is indeed the length or the size of this collection.
All right.
So now let's go and go back to our code and see how can we put together a simple collection so we can
see how this works?
So how do we create a list of items?
OK, let's go ahead and get started here.
The first the most simple collection type.
In this case, I'm going to create a read only collection type.
So what you do is, let's say, file, say my list of names, and then I'm going to just say is equal
to a list of just like that.
And of course, you can see there are different options here.
Notice these are all functions that we get from cuddling.
So we want the second one.
Either one would work, of course, but let's just get the second one there and inside here we can has
elements, right?
We talked about elements.
Those are items that we can pass inside.
Now here I want to pass a string type string types inside of this.
So I'm going to say James, Paul, Rafael and.
Gina.
OK, so there we go, so we've created a collection list here.
And one thing you notice is each element or each item is eliminated by a comma to say now this is index
zero, index one, two and three.
Now, quick question what is this size or length of this list?
Yes, it's going to be four because of one two three four.
OK, so let's see what if we wanted to, let's say, show the contents of this list?
What do we do, what we can go ahead and say print?
We'll show you real quick when I just go ahead and print out my list of names.
And if we run this, OK, so a few moments later can see that we have indeed James, Paul, Rafael and
Gina.
So this is the internal representation of this.
Now, if you are coming from a different programming language or other programming languages, you'll
see that this is very familiar because we have this square brackets here.
This tells you that this is actually saved as an array, right?
So an array is another implementation of a list, if you will.
Anyway, so there you have it.
Now we can actually loop through all of these names and spit out each one of them.
How do we do that?
Well, we could go ahead and use a full loop.
Let me go ahead and put this back like they sort of space.
I can say a few things.
First of all, I can just say a for loop like this.
I'm going to say item in my list of names as such and what we're doing here now, we are seeing for
each item that we get inside of my list of names.
What's going to be added to this item variable?
So now this item variables you have over.
It's actually going to be of type string because it knows that this list of names contains strings.
So now I can say print item.
I say print l'an so that we can have a line break that's going right.
And you can see now we are going through and getting each item of our list of collection there.
And, of course, because we know it's a print airline, we can also interpolate a few things here,
I'm going to say names and pass item as such.
You can say the same thing.
Let's go ahead and run from here.
Same thing, run.
And you can say names are showing there another way we can loop through a list.
We can use a for each.
This is very special because we can actually use this on my list of names by the top here.
And when I say my list of names and because is a collection, I can't invoke a method that say for each
and one light you can see now.
Look at the beauty here.
We have a few options.
What does this look like, right?
If you said LAMDA, you are completely right.
We do have a lambda form for each.
Let's try it out.
So click like that.
You enter.
Aha.
Look at this the moment we hit enter to remember we have the I.T, the IT type variable argument that
we are receiving there.
This is equivalent to this item, which means as wide as string.
So now we're saying for each item as we go through this, my list of name, right?
We are going to receive an item or a string item, one string element in this case in the form of it.
So if I just go ahead and then print it like that, what do you think is going to happen?
Let's go and comment that one out.
So we don't have duplicates and you can see James Cole, Rafael, let's say, print L.A. and again.
That way we actually get something that it's readable.
OK?
James, Paul, Rafael and Gina.
Very good.
So we have two ways to loop through or iterate through our list stuff.
Now you may say, OK, how do I add dynamically to a list of, well, you can't.
The reason why is because there are two types of lists in this case or two types of collection.
There is the mutable type, which means just like a foul or Anvar.
So far in this case is mutable.
List of is immutable, meaning you can't change it.
You can add anything to it unless we go up here and add manually because the size of this is set right
away.
As we add each item so we can't see my list of items and not add.
That's not going to work because it is indeed immutable.
If we want to create a mutable list, then we'll have to say something like this without my mutable
list items.
Oh my, just my immutable list.
And I'm going to say it's equal to mutable list of the same concepts here.
When want pass elements?
Going to say in this case, I'm actually going to change this instead of having string types right in
our list for its items?
I can put numbers well for something like this.
Now for this mutable one, let's get rid of this.
I can do something else, right?
I can save my mutable list dot and I can't invoke the add right, so I'm using the wrong one.
That's why I can't access the add on my bed.
So this has to be my mutable.
At least a year ago that ad, then I have access to add and you can see here I have a few options.
I can pass the index add.
Remember the index, which is this slot where we want this element to live right to be used to sit in
a way.
So in this case, if we just put the actual element, the item or this element will be put at the end
of the list.
OK.
So because it's expecting integer can see element has to be entered because it knows that we have integer
that we've added.
So in this case, let's say something like this, and let's go ahead and print my mutable list like
this so quick to see.
And you can see, like I said, the 124 or 214 that is, it was added at the end.
OK, there we go.
And of course, we can also say something my mutable list don't remove at.
If I say just remove.
I'll have to pass the element to remove.
So if I say remove, I have to pass.
For instance, remove 214.
OK, and that element will remove.
Let's run.
And you can see we no longer have to 14.
However, if I want to remove by passing the index, I can say remove that index.
I want to remove the first item, which will be at index zero, which mean, is this case going to be
this 12?
My case, if you run again, you can see we will no longer see.
12.
OK, no longer do we see 12.
Very good.
So you've learned about two types of collections here.
We have the mutable collection.
Or actually we have the immutable collection, which is just a list of and we have the immutable collection,
which allows us to add items to the collection.
And you also learned how to loop through a collection.
So there's two ways to look through there is this for each, which actually is a lambda.
Very cool.
Actually, it gives us the possibility of using a lambda out of many other possibilities, which is
very nice.
You see this it or it string type here, right?
It can pass, you know, a print line or do whatever else we want and or we can use that for a loop
that I showed you earlier, which is this for here can say item in and passing the list.
Let's do with my mutable list in this case, and now I'm going to just say Print Ellen, all the items
inside of a mutable list.
If you run this, you're going to see the numbers.
They would go forty five point three to 14.
Actually, we also have that 30 for the reason why is not showing like that?
I see.
Yes, because I have print inadequate deadline here.
Was it point in so that way you can see the whole picture.
OK, there we go now.
Thirty four.
So just printing these numbers that we have inside of our immutable list.